Stormy Daniels’s attorney Michael Avenatti on Saturday suggested that Russia probe special counsel Robert Mueller should investigate the Washington D.C. law firm Squire Patton Boggs, which President Donald Trump’s lawyer Michael Cohen reportedly had meetings with.

Related: Michael Avenatti Says Michael Cohen Tried to Stop Stormy Daniels Hiring a 'Competent' Lawyer

Avenatti on MSNBC’s AM Joy show said the issue had not been touched on yet and would be the next front of inquiry for Mueller.

Trending: Paris Knife Attack: Suspect Is French Citizen Born in Chechnya say Sources, as ISIS Claim Responsibility

“Shortly after the election, Michael Cohen forms a relationship with a very well-known law firm in Washington, D.C., by the name of Patton Boggs. And Patton Boggs has a long history of lobbying and being involved between companies and the U.S. government, that’s a very unusual relationship to have been formed right after the election,” Avenatti said.

Avenatti said that Patton Boggs is a “very reputable law firm” and asked why the firm and Cohen got together.

“What did Michael Cohen sell to Patton Boggs as it related to the idea that they were going to allow Michael Cohen come to the law firm? It’s clear to me what he sold them,” he said. “What he sold them was a book of clients, a book of corporations or individuals that had already retained him for access to the U.S. president.”

Avenatti concluded: “That needs to be the next inquiry, what did Patton Boggs know, and when did they know it? Did they know that Michael Cohen was lobbying? Did they not know it?”

The lawyer for Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, also gave a stern warning to other people who have had contact with Cohen.

“If you’re out there and you have stuff related to your relationships with #MichaelCohen that you’re concerned are going to come out you should be concerned because they are going to come out... that’s a stern warning this #SaturdayMorning #AMJoy,” Avenatti tweeted.

This article was first written by Newsweek