Meghan McCain spoke out Friday after a White House aide dismissed her father, Sen. John McCain’s, opposition to CIA director nominee Gina Haspel by saying that he was “dying anyway.”

Special assistant Kelly Sadler, who handles White House communications with Trump surrogates, dismissed McCain’s objections to Haspel, saying, “it doesn’t matter, he’s dying anyway.”

“The thing that surprises me most,” said Meghan McCain on “The View,” where she co-hosts. “I don’t understand what kind of environment you’re working in when that would be acceptable and then you can come into work the next day and still have a job. And that’s all I have to say about it.”

McCain, the show’s resident conservative, also offered a broader bit of philosophy counter Sadler’s comment.

“This may be a bit intense for 1 in the morning on Friday, but we’re all dying. I’m dying, you’re dying, we’re all dying,” she said, referring to her father’s battle with brain cancer. “And I want to say that since my dad has been diagnosed the past — almost a year July 19th — I really feel that I understand the meaning of life, and it is not how you die. It’s how you live.”

Sen. McCain’s opposition to Haspel came following her Senate testimony Wednesday, saying in a statement Thursday that although she was a “patriot” and longtime public servant, “Her refusal to acknowledge torture’s immorality is disqualifying.”

Yesterday was broadly not a good day for John McCain commentary. As the longtime Arizona senator continues cancer treatment, a guest on Fox Business also attacked him, accusing the senator of revealing secrets to the Vietnamese while in captivity and cited his case as proof that torture “worked.”

Also Read: Fox Business Host Apologizes After Guest Says Torture 'Worked' on John McCain

“The fact is, is John McCain — it worked on John. That’s why they call him ‘Songbird John,'” said Lt. Gen. Thomas McInerney Thursday morning on “Varney & Co.” “The fact is those methods can work, and they are effective, as former Vice President Cheney said. And if we have to use them to save a million American lives, we will do whatever we have to.”

The guest, once a Fox News regular, is now banned by the network.

Before moving to “The View” in 2016 Meghan McCain served as a regular Fox News host.

Meghan McCain Is in Talks to Board 'The View' After Fox News Exit